# Overview
This FastAPI based web app serves a file that is generated by a GitHub Actions workflow and stored as an artifact.
Authentication is implemented by registering this application as an OAuth app.

# Internals
Initially, the user is authenticated using the [OAuth web application flow](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/authorizing-oauth-apps#web-application-flow).
After successful authentication, the access token is stored in a time-to-live (TTL) cache, that associates a randomly generated session id with the access token. The session id itself is stored in a cookie.
In that way, the actual access token is never exposed outside of the server.

The access token is then used to get a list of all artifacts of the specified repository using the corresponding [REST API endpoint](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/artifacts#list-artifacts-for-a-repository).
Afterwards, the latest artifact is streamed on the server side, unpacked and the file with the filename `FILENAME` served to the (authenticated) user.

# Configuration
The application is configured using the following environment variables:
```
CLIENT_ID=<OAuth client id>
CLIENT_SECRET=<OAuth client secret>
GITHUB_USER=<repository owner>
GITHUB_REPO=<repository name>
FILENAME=<the file to serve>
SECRET_KEY=<the application secret key to sign cookies, for example an URL-safe text string>
```
During development, these can be stored in a `.env` file.

# Getting Started

Install the required dependencies:

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install .
```

Or, if using [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/):

```bash
uv sync
```


## Running Locally

Start the development server on http://0.0.0.0:5001

```bash
python main.py
# using uv:
uv run --env-file=.env main.py
```

When you make changes to your project, the server will automatically reload.

# Misc
See my other [project](https://github.com/danielschlaugies/latex-template-gh-actions) for a possible repository to use in combination with.
